SUPER SNAKE: A Description

For my final piece, I wanted break away from the simulation-heavy assignments we had been doing for most of the course. I thought that it would be a good opportunity to explore how what I had learned in the class would support, enhance, and improve different forms of programming. I decided to make a game, which I thought was both a technical and creative challenge. 

The game I created is called SUPER SNAKE. It is a simple, arcade style game meant for two players. A very simple form of the game was created by Mauricio Sanchez and I during our OSC in-class session. I liked the idea, so I thought that I would keep going with the basic mechanic. From the beginning, I knew that what would make this project successful would be the polish. The idea was very simple, so the presentation and playability of the game had to be top notch. This meant actually considering and designing the interface, layout, type, assets, sound, etc.

Early on, I decided that I would not use OSC as a way to link the two players: it was slow, would miss messages, and provided an unnessary level of complexity. The game was to be local multiplayer using controllers, which added to the intensity and polish of the game. I worked with a designer friend in Texas, Eric Pavik, to develop some of the look and feel for the game. I wanted the game to feel "futuristic retro" (an oxymoron?), and I think that the final piece turned out aesthetically as I imagined.

Animation turned out to be a very important part of the game. There are small details here and there that really sell the game. For example, as the snake or obstacle turn, they accelerate slightly and slow back down to the regular speed. This gives their movement a little more of a dynamic feel. Another important example is in the speed of the game. The speed of everything increases slightly each round. For this I used a time scale, similar to the one we had implemented in class one week. In order to provide a more interesting visual experience for the player (and the potential spectators), I added in a couple of different particle systems. One particle system is used purely for the background: it consists of large geometric shapes that float around and provide secondary animation. The another particle system is a little more versatile. It's used for background animation, but also for a few different events in the game. For example, when the snake gets the bomb powerup, the obstacles explode into small colored particles. I believe that details such as these really bring the game to life. They would not have been possible without everything I had learned in the class.

In the end, I thought that the game turned out well. There are some random parts that I had to remove because they were giving me too much trouble (self-collision of the snake, for example), and some glitches that weren't worth fixing, but I thought that the overall conception of my initial vision and the resulting game were something that I could be proud of. 